[Music]
you love them and occasionally even
fight with them yeah
I'm talking about siblings if you're a
girl then you know that having a younger
sister is a lot of fun even though she
keeps borrowing clothes from your
wardrobe but would you believe she can
influence your life in a much more
serious way
researchers from Sweden and New Zealand
teamed up to find out if there is any
connection between the birth order and
weight their results are published in
2015 in the Journal of Epidemiology and
community health turned out to be quite
surprising after examining the medical
records of thirteen thousand four
hundred six pairs of Swedish sisters
born between 1991 and 2009 they came to
a conclusion that firstborns have a
greater body mass index BMI and are more
likely to be overweight or obese yeah
you better put away that bag of chips if
you have a younger sister according to
the study at Birth first born women
actually weighed less than their
siblings but when they grew up
they were 29% more likely to be
overweight and 40% more likely to be
obese in comparison with their second
born sisters but why does birth order
have so much to do with your weight well
scientists came up with several theories
that could explain it the first one is
based on biology pediatric
endocrinologist Wayne cut field believes
that during the first pregnancy the
vessels that supply nutrients to the
placenta might be more narrow such
reduction of nutrient supply could cause
the individual to be at risk of storing
more fat and having insulin that works
less effectively later in life remember
when your mom wouldn't let you play
until you ate everything that was on
your plate well according to another
theory proposed by dr. Maria Pena
mothers tend to overfeed their first
horns because they're worried about
their kids having a healthy weight when
it comes to children that are born later
mothers already having some experience
don't try to force food on them anymore
however firstborns might keep that habit
of eating more later on in life did you
often bicker with your siblings over who
is gonna get that last candy and
professor Gary sacks thinks that it can
also contribute to older siblings having
extra weight he also suggests that some
parents might spend more money on their
first Born's
even if you're a firstborn in your
family don't despair
a healthy diet and physical exercises
can still help you to stay in shape
anyways having a sibling might affect
other areas of your life and you
probably have no idea about it
a 2013 Ohio State University study found
that the probability of divorce goes
down for two percent with each sibling
the authors of the study believe that
growing up in a big family gives you an
opportunity to develop important skills
such as considering other people's
points of view learning how to talk
through problems and negotiate having
the opposite sex siblings makes you
better at dating a study carried out by
researchers from Pennsylvania State
University reveals that people with one
or more siblings of the opposite sex
consider themselves more confident when
it comes to attracting and interacting
with the opposite sex researchers found
that growing up with an opposite sex
sibling provides natural opportunities
to practice things like conflict
resolution and emotional control which
can be very important skills for
developing and built relationships
that's why women who have brothers tend
to be less hesitant in initiating
communication with males
and men who have sisters are better
listeners and more sensitive that helps
some land dates so don't forget to give
a shout-out to your sibling at your
wedding
but while having a sibling can have an
impact on your interpersonal skills
birth order also has a lot to do with a
career path you choose
Disney carried out a study in 2018 to
commemorate the relationship between
sisters Elsa and Anna in their hit movie
frozen
led by psychologist Emma Kenny the
researchers found significant evidence
to support this idea
after analyzing a random sample of 500
successful individuals from 11 different
career groups according to this study
middle children are 30% more likely to
become company CEOs and their siblings
this could be because middle children
have to fight for attention more than
others which helps them to get such
traits as competitiveness flexibility
and diplomacy that are required for such
high-flying roles to confirm it just let
me tell you that Mark Zuckerberg and
Bill Gates are middle children firstborn
children are most likely to become
scientists like Stephen Hawking or
astronauts like Neil Armstrong and what
about the youngest kids in the family
they are 50% more likely to have careers
in classical music like Mozart think
you're the smartest in your family well
science says it depends if you're a
firstborn or not researchers from the
University of Edinburgh and Sydney
University found that firstborn kids may
have a higher IQ than their siblings
after assessing the development of 5,000
children they found that firstborn
children typically perform better in
reading and picture vocabulary tests
than their siblings this could be
connected with the fact that before your
other siblings were born you got all
your parents attention so they could
focus their efforts on only one child
one sibling start entering the picture
mom and dad have to divide their time up
among all of you firstborn are probably
well aware of the fact that they are so
intelligent because researchers at the
University of Essex found that there's
16 percent more likely to pursue higher
education than their younger siblings
but hey younger siblings I have some
good news for you too maybe your older
brother or sister is a real achiever and
career or study being so brainy but you
have some hilarious jokes under your
sleeve thanks to your great sense of
humor according to a global online
community YouGov youngest siblings are
the funniest during this study
participants were asked to classify how
they perceive their sense of humor in
comparison to their siblings the results
revealed that the youngest siblings have
a strong desire to entertain their
family members which helps them to
sharpen their skills at joking but what
makes them the source of comic relief in
the family probably they have a bolder
sense of humor because parents give them
more leeway in choosing topics to laugh
at speaking of parents ever felt like
your parents prefer your sibling over
you well that just might be true parents
can keep saying that they love all their
children equally but science tells a
different story
a study conducted at the University of
California reveals the harsh truth out
of the 768 parents surveyed 70% of
mothers and 74% of fathers admitted that
they have a favorite child though the
parents didn't specify which child was
their favorite the researchers
interviewed their children and came to a
conclusion it's the oldest one I know
that the news might be heartbreaking for
some but hey let's be honest you
probably have a favorite parent too
right
how many siblings do you have if any
sound off in the comments below and
don't forget to give this video a like
share it with your friends and click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life